Assignment 2 feedback
=====================

Names:

HAZOP application: /2

 2 marks: There is sufficient evidence to conclude that the team has systematically applied HAZOP; e.g. almost all reasonable interpretations of guidewords have been considered.

 1 mark: The idea of HAZOP has been used, but there is little indication that the application was systematic; e.g. there are some clear missing uses of the guidewords, possibly resulting in missing hazards.

 All links or all components considered (depending on what they defined as a 'design item'):
   - Heart to HRM
   - HRM to ICD
   - ICD to generator
   - generator to heart

 Causes from roles (cardiologist, assistant, and patient) considered.

 Consider lack of behaviour as well as unwanted:
   - absent signals and wrong signals
   - signals when not wanted (e.g. unneeded shock)
   - MORE = 3 things: "too many joules", "too many shocks", and "too fast shocks" (latter could be "early")

Hazards: /3

 3 marks: The team has identified all (most) of the class I-II hazards below, and has categorised them similarly to below, and has some sensible class III hazards. Class IV hazards need not be documented. 

 2 marks: There are several class I-II hazards missing, or risk classes are not sensible; or only the very high risks (classes I-II) have been considered.

 1 mark: Many of the serious hazards missing, incorrect/nonsensical risk classes, missing data, etc. Some of this will be the result of a poor application of HAZOP.

 Important hazards (ie. classes I-II):
   1) Lack of pulses or shock (class I)
   2) Inability to turn off hardware or switch between modes (class II)
   3) Shock when none warranted (class I)
   4) Tachycardia treatment considered fibrillation (class I)
   5) Joules delivered too high (class I)
   6) Tachycardia limit too high (class I)
   7) Less/more than 10 impulses or 1 shock (class I-II)
   8) Clinical assistant or patient able to change settings (class II)
   9) Incorrect values for last 50 ticks (class II-III)
  10) The interplay between shocks and subsequent measures of the heart beat; that is, shocks are intended to change the heartbeat, but these should be ignored in the short term and not collected as data to detect fibrillation (class I-II)

Causes, consequences, and risk classes: /2

   2 marks: All identified hazards are addressed: that is, with frequency, severity, risk (from the first two), possible causes, consequences, and recommendations.

   1 marks: Deviations from the above; e.g. poor risk assessment, missing causes, consequences or risks, etc. In particular, as discussed in the lecture, consequences need to be relative to the safety, rather than the behaviour; that is, the impact on the people or environment, not the resulting functionality.

Requirements: /2

There are some (what I think) important requirements missing in the software. By using software, we have an opportunity to detect and then mitigate several hazards from occurring. I expect to see at least the following:

  1) Authorisation requirements related to roles; e.g. cardiologist must be authenticated and authorised to change settings.
  2) Fail safe checks; e.g. if the closed loop is on and the heart beat is 0, raise an alarm. These checks can occur in several places, but this is the main one.
  3) A requirement that eliminates the issue of a ventricle fibrillation shock being detected as an erratic heart beat.
  4) Measurement as part of the feedback loop. That is, checking that a ventricle fibrillation shock is delivered by monitoring the heart directly after. NOTE: I'm not sure how many people will get this; if nobody does, then perhaps my expectations are too high.

Some additional things to comment on, that I do not expect to see, but just to get students thinking:

  1) New requirements that settings can only be incremented/decremented in small units; e.g. 1 joule for shocks. This prevents 'slip of the finger' accidents, such as the cardiologist entering 300 instead of 30 for ventricle fibrillation treatment.
  2) Item 3 above (measurement as part of the loop) if nobody gets this.

 Mark allocation:

  2 marks: For most/all of the requirements above, plus sensible ways of addressing the other high-risk hazards identified by the team.
  1 mark: Several hazards not addressed that could be addressed by requirements.

Analysis: /1

  1 mark: A mark for any reasonable analysis of an assignment 1 submission. The marks here are not so important: it is the process of doing it and critically analysing their assignment 1 submissions that is important.

Total: /10

LocalWords:  HAZOP guidewords HRM ICD ie
